https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/florida-man-convicted-trial-mail-fraud-connection-mass-mailing-scam
fetched 2026-09-26 (UTC) — headless Chromium

PRESS RELEASE
Florida Man Convicted At Trial Of Mail Fraud In Connection With Mass-Mailing Scam
Wednesday, September 17, 2025
Share 
For Immediate Release
U.S. Attorney's Office, Southern District of New York

United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Jay Clayton, announced today that, on September 15, 2025, ROBERT W. LEDERHILGER III was convicted of mail fraud in connection with a years-long, mass-mailing scam.  The defendant was found guilty following a one-week jury trial before U.S. District Judge Andrew L. Carter.

“Robert W. Lederhilger III defrauded tens of thousands of small businesses over the course of more than seven years,” said U.S. Attorney Jay Clayton.  “Lederhilger mailed fake bills for webhosting services to businesses across the country and collected payments from victims without providing them with webhosting—or any other service.  This federal criminal conviction demonstrates that New Yorkers will not tolerate fraud and want those who victimize the public through lies held accountable.”

According to the Indictment, statements made in public court proceedings and filings, and the evidence at trial:

Beginning in 2015, LEDERHILGER operated companies through which he purported to offer webhosting services.  LEDERHILGER designed and executed a scheme in which he mailed, and caused others to mail, over three million mailers that looked like invoices for webhosting services.  LEDERHILGER sent those mailers to, among others, small businesses that already had websites in order to make those businesses believe that LEDERHILGER was their current webhosting provider and that they needed to pay him.  When victim businesses made payments to LEDERHILGER, they received no service in return.  The only thing the victims received was a “renewal” bill a year later, asking for another payment.  Between approximately 2015 and 2021, LEDERHILGER made at least approximately $2.99 million from this scheme.

*                *                *

LEDERHILGER, 44, of Bradenton, Florida, was convicted of one count of mail fraud, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.

The maximum potential sentence in this case is prescribed by Congress and provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge.

Mr. Clayton praised the outstanding investigative work of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. 

This case is being handled by the Office’s General Crimes Unit.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Camille L. Fletcher, Getzel Berger, Kevin Grossinger, and Daniel G. Nessim are in charge of the prosecution, with assistance from Paralegal Specialists Christopher Harris and Alexandra LeBaron.

Contact

Nicholas Biase, Shelby Wratchford
(212) 637-2600

Updated September 17, 2025
Component
USAO - New York, Southern
Press Release Number: 25-214

