https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2020/08/ftc-sends-refund-checks-totaling-more-700000-small-business-owners-defrauded-deceptive-robocalls
fetched 2026-09-26 (curl, browser UA, HTTP 200)

Tags:

          Consumer Protection

          Bureau of Consumer Protection

          Imposter

          Telemarketing

          Small Business

          The Federal Trade Commission is mailing refunds totaling more than $700,000 to small business owners who were deceived by a robocall scheme.

According to the FTC, the defendants, operating as Pointbreak Media, Modern Spotlight, National Business Listings, and Modern Source Media, called small business owners, claimed to be acting on Google’s behalf, and threatened that Google would label their businesses “permanently closed” unless they spoke with a “Google specialist.”

The defendants’ telemarketers then told the small business owners that the defendants could “claim and verify” the business owners’ Google listing and ensure it would appear prominently on the search engine, for a one-time fee ranging from $300 to $700. The court found that these claims were false. 

The FTC is sending refunds to 4,467 small business owners with an average refund amount of $158.32. Those who receive checks should deposit or cash their checks within 60 days. If you were charged by Pointbreak Media or related defendants but did not file for a refund, please contact the refund administrator, JND Legal Administration, at 1-833-928-2553.

The FTC never requires consumers to pay money or provide information to cash refund checks. Recipients who have questions about this refund program should contact JND at the number above.

The FTC’s new interactive dashboards for refund data provide a state-by-state breakdown of refunds. In 2019, FTC actions led to more than $373 million in refunds to consumers across the country.

          The Federal Trade Commission works to promote competition and protect and educate consumers. The FTC will never demand money, make threats, tell you to transfer money, or promise you a prize. Learn more about consumer topics at consumer.ftc.gov, or report fraud, scams, and bad business practices at ReportFraud.ftc.gov. Follow the FTC on social media, read consumer alerts and the business blog, and sign up to get the latest FTC news and alerts.

        Press Release Reference

            FTC Disconnects Pointbreak Media Robocall Scheme Defendants

    FTC Crackdown Stops Operations Responsible for Billions of Illegal Robocalls

        Contact Information

            Contact for Consumers

          Consumer Redress Hotline

          1-833-928-2553

Media Contact

Mitchell J. Katz

          Office of Public Affairs

          202-326-2180

        Related Cases

            Pointbreak Media, LLC

        Topics

            Protecting Small Businesses

      Return to top