https://www.cbsnews.com/news/restaurant-scam-one-star-reviews/
2026-09-26
"A reputation for a restaurant is everything": Scammers demand restaurants pay up or get hit with one-star reviews - CBS News 
 Latest
 U.S.
 Iran War
 Cuba Plans
 World
 Politics
 Entertainment
 HealthWatch
 MoneyWatch
 Crime
 Space
 Sports
 Brand Studio
 The Free Press
 Local News
 Atlanta
 Baltimore
 Bay Area
 Boston
 Chicago
 Colorado
 Detroit
 Los Angeles
 Miami
 Minnesota
 New York
 Philadelphia
 Pittsburgh
 Sacramento
 Texas
 Live
 CBS News 24/7
 Baltimore
 Bay Area
 Boston
 Chicago
 Colorado
 Detroit
 Los Angeles
 Miami
 Minnesota
 New York
 Philadelphia
 Pittsburgh
 Sacramento
 Texas
 48 Hours
 60 Minutes
 Shows
 48 Hours
 60 Minutes
 CBS Evening News
 CBS Mornings
 CBS Morning News
 CBS Reports
 CBS Saturday Morning
 The Daily Report
 The Dish
 Face the Nation
 Sunday Morning
 The Takeout
 Things That Matter
 The Uplift
 CBS News Investigates
 CBS News Confirmed
 Podcasts
 Newsletters
 Download Our App
 CBS News Team
 Executive Team
 Brand Studio
 Paramount+
 Join Our Talent Community
 RSS Feeds
 CBS Mornings
|
 Eye Opener
 Politics
 Health
 CBS Mornings YouTube
Watch CBS News
 CBS Mornings
"A reputation for a restaurant is everything": Scammers demand restaurants pay up or get hit with one-star reviews
August 3, 2022 / 12:55 PM EDT
 / CBS News
 Add CBS News on Google
Houston restaurant Bludorn is often mentioned as one of the city's best, serving French-inspired cuisine — but you wouldn't know it by some of the one-star reviews posted recently on Google. According to co-owner and Chef Aaron Bludorn, all the bad reviews appeared at the same time.
"Someone was, you know, taking something that we worked so hard for — which were plenty of four-star, five-star reviews and a good rating on Google — and they knocked us down," Bludorn told CBS News' Janet Shamlian.
Bludorn and co-owner Cherif Mbodji said before this, they rarely received negative feedback. Both Mbodji and Bludorn were concerned about the damage the bad reviews could bring.
"A reputation for a restaurant is everything," Mbodji said.
It wasn't long before they learned the reviews were part of a scam after the restaurant received an untraceable email asking for a $75 Google Play gift card to have them taken down. 
Bludorn said paying the $75 was never an option.
"I didn't consider ever paying that ransom because to me that meant they would have, you know, won — and been able to. I  also didn't know where it would end," said Bludorn. 
The note said that bad reviews will continue to be left unless the ransomers received what they wanted. Restaurants across the country are reporting similar extortion threats — a barrage of bad reviews and a demand for money, in the form of a gift card, to stop them.
Michelle Korsmo of the National Restaurant Association says federal agents are now involved in cases similar to Bludorn's. She encourages more awareness among diners when reading Google reviews.
"Consumers should really read reviews with a critical eye to see if they make sense with what others have said about the restaurant. Don't let a swindler scam you out of a great restaurant experience," Korsmo said.
Bludorn says it reached out to Google, which initially said the one-star reviews didn't violate policy because there were no comments included. The restaurant then posted the blackmail attempt on its social media to explain what happened and was overwhelmed when more than 100 customers submitted their own positive Google reviews.
A Google spokesperson tells CBS News the company's teams are working around the clock to thwart these attacks, remove fraudulent reviews and put protections on business profiles that may have been affected.
Later, Google did remove reviews associated with Bludorn, but they removed both good and bad ones. Bludorn says the restaurant never lost customers but the incident happened at a challenging time as the restaurant deals with inflation.
"We can't really raise prices because we want to stay competitive, so every guest counts right now," Bludorn said. 
More from CBS News
 GOP Sen. Thom Tillis on Trump-Xi visit: "It's a WTF moment"
 U.S. military lays groundwork for potential action around Cuba
 Duckworth slams Trump's "foolhardy plan" to make triumphal arch a military complex
 Jane Doe who accused Jay-Z of sexual assault formally recants her claims
Go deeper with The Free Press
 Tough Love: A Woman Says My Husband Assaulted Her
 Letter to the Editor re: ‘I Wrote a Book About Censorship. Then People Tried to Censor It.’
 © 2022 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Scammers demand restaurants pay up or get slammed with one-star review
 04:27
 Scammers demand restaurants pay up or get slammed with one-star review
 (04:27)
 GOP Sen. Thom Tillis on Trump-Xi visit: "It's a WTF moment"
 U.S. military lays groundwork for potential action around Cuba
 Duckworth slams Trump's "foolhardy plan" to make triumphal arch a military complex
 Tough Love: A Woman Says My Husband Assaulted Her
 Featured
 Political News
 Iran War Latest
 NFL Scores
 College Football Rankings
 Follow Us On
 YouTube
 Facebook
 Instagram
 X
 Privacy
 Privacy Policy
 California Notice
 Your Privacy Choices
 Terms of Use
 Minors' Privacy Policy
 More from CBS News
 Newsletters
 Podcasts
 Download Our App
 Brand Studio
 Sitemap
 Company
 About Paramount
 Advertise With Paramount
 Join Our Talent Community
 Help
 Feedback
 Contact the Ombudsman
Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
 CBS News App
 Open
 Chrome
 Safari
 Continue