https://www.today.com/food/restaurants/one-star-review-restaurant-extortion-scam-rcna40333
2026-09-26
Restaurants Are Falling Victim to a One-Star Review Extortion Scam
Seen on TODAY: Editor-Loved Shapewear Deals, Custom Glasses, More
IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser.
Skip to Content
 On the Show
About TODAY
Show Video
3rd Hour of TODAY 
Jenna & Sheinelle
Saturday TODAY
Sunday TODAY
Shop the Show
Podcasts
TODAY Plaza
Citi Concert Series on TODAY
From the Archives
 Shop
Shop the Show
Hair Awards
Deals and Sales
Product Finder
Gift Guides
Shop TODAY Savings
Ranked by Shop TODAY
Steals & Deals
Stuff We Love Newsletter
Add Us To Google
Award Winners
Step Into Style
 Health
Start TODAY
Expert Tip of the Day
Women's Health
Fitness
Diet & Nutrition
Mental Health
Sleep
 Start TODAY
 Parents
Baby Names
Kids Health
Family
Babies
Parenting Tips
LOL
 Food
Recipes on the Show
Most Popular Recipes
All Recipes
Food News
 Life
Astrology
Holidays
Quotes
Jokes
Trivia
Sign up  / Sign in
Hi 
Share this —
TODAYDashboardMy SavedNewslettersProfile
Start TODAYSubscription
Steals & Deals, Boxes & Last Chance MarketPurchased Order History
Search Today
Sections
Health & Wellness
Parenting
Food
Shop
Pop Culture
News
Life
Style
Shows
TODAY
3rd Hour of TODAY
TODAY with Jenna & Sheinelle
Saturday TODAY
Sunday TODAY with Willie Geist
Watch Full Episodes
More
News
Life
Books
Trending
Recipes
Read With Jenna
Astrology
Inspirational 
Holidays
Relationships
TODAY Recipes
Newsletters
Start TODAY
TODAY Archives
Shop TODAY Awards
Citi Concert Series
Podcasts
About
Follow today
More Brands
Facebook
Pinterest
Email
SMS
Blue Sky
Print
Whatsapp
Reddit
Flipboard
Twitter
Linkedin
On the Show
Shop
Health
Start TODAY
Parents
Food
Life
Restaurants
Scammers are flooding restaurants with one-star reviews to extort money from owners
Restaurants from New York City to San Francisco and many more in between are falling victim to the same scam.
Updated July 29, 2022, 5:06 PM EDT
Joseph Lamour
Skip to table of contents
One-star rating on device screen.Sean Gladwell / Getty Images
ShareAdd TODAY to Google
To customers and business owners alike, good reviews are of paramount importance. In fact, according to research by business consulting company Invesp, 88% of customers trust online reviews as much as they would trust a friend’s recommendation, so for most people looking to try a new place on their lunch break or find the perfect date spot, the internet acts as a buddy most of us trust. That’s why a new scam hitting the ratings pages of restaurants across the country is causing deep concern.
Scammers have been bombarding restaurant pages with one-star Google reviews in the hopes of extorting money from unsuspecting businesses. From San Francisco to New York City and many places in between, restaurant owners are finding their Google rating suddenly drop — only to discover that it’s not dissatisfied customers that are leaving the reviews, but a much more insidious party.
“We were just perusing our reviews across all the platforms and we noticed that we started getting a lot of these one star reviews on Google,” Aaron Bludorn, chef and co-owner of the eponymous restaurant Bludorn in Houston, Texas, told TODAY Food. 
Bludorn said restaurant staff started to notice the bad reviews rolling in the week right after Fourth of July weekend, which is around the time that restaurants in other cities started falling victim to similar scams. 
“We realized that this was becoming a pretty big deal here,” Bludorn said. He said the staff was perplexed by the sudden influx of one-star ratings with no comments attached to them, but noticed that these bad reviews were only appearing on Google. 
Wondering what was going on, Bludorn asked around and said he heard from a few friends with their own establishments in New York and Houston who also found themselves facing a similar experience. “And then we received the email,” he said.
"Hello. Unfortunately negative feedback about your establishment has been left by us. And will appear in the future, one review a day,” reads an email sent by the scammers to Bludorn going by the pseudonym "Trí Toàn Nguyên." "We sincerely apologize for our actions, I would not want to harm your business, but we have no other choice. The fact is that we live in India and see no other way to survive.”
The scammer went on to ask for $75 to be paid as a Google Play gift card, even providing a link to PayPal for their target to purchase it. The scammers also explained what they’re going to do with the money, saying that with the proceeds from the sale of that gift card their family will have “three weeks of income.”
Bludorn said the scammer made the restaurant’s Google rating drop from 4.8 to 4.5 in one week with only a few one-star reviews. An outpouring of support from the community resulted in around 100 five-star reviews in one day, making the rating recover somewhat, but Bludorn's rating only increased to 4.6, short of the original rating it had before the ordeal began. He said an effort by Google to remove the fraudulent reviews caused most of the five-star reviews from real customers to be removed as a result.
Bludorn said he never communicated with the scammer and subsequently received more threatening emails as time went on, which mirrors the story of another restaurant hundreds of miles and a couple of states away.
“What happened was Lucho woke up and saw that we got a one star,” Kelly Barbieri, co-owner of San Francisco eatery Lucho’s, recounted to TODAY. Barbieri said that Luciano "Lucho" Romero, the restaurant’s chef and co-owner told her that an anonymous Google user left them a bad review but didn’t leave a reason why.
“So, he started going back to all the customers that we had throughout the day to try and figure out where we messed up, because we’re just not used to getting them,” Barbieri explained. “We always want to try and make something right.”
After being unable to figure out the source of that first bad review, Barbieri said the next morning, she and Romero woke up to more 1-star reviews — and then later on even more. Convinced that they couldn’t have gotten that many bad reviews within a couple of days, Barbieri and Romero decided to report their issue to Google, who told them in an email reviewed by TODAY that the bad reviews met all of their guidelines and wouldn’t be removed.
“Then the next morning, two more came in,” said Barbieri. “So now we were really trying to figure it out.” 
Customer reviews for restaurant Luchos which include several fraudulent one-star reviews. Courtesy Kelly Barbieri / Luchos
Putting on her detective cap, Romero looked into the first account who gave them a one-star to see where they were located and if they had written any other reviews. He noticed that the account only had two reviews: one at Lucho’s and another restaurant in Los Angeles, hundreds of miles away. Curious, he checked the other accounts and found similar city-hoppers.
“Others gave a one-star review to us and a restaurant in Texas, then we saw one in Chicago. And so we couldn’t pinpoint where these people were located,” Barbieri said. That’s when they received the first letter on June 24.
“The first one was like, ‘We’re really sorry that we have to do this,’” Barbieri said, adding that the letters got more threatening as time went on without a payment. In each email, just like with Bludorn, the scammers asked for $75 to be paid in Google Play gift cards.
“We realize that what we are doing is illegal and unfair. But we have no other choice,” reads one email from the scammers to Lucho’s. “Let’s just close this matter positively and forget about each other.”
In all of the letters, the scammers use remorseful language, saying “sorry” and “we apologize” at multiple points during their extortion attempt. In one email, the scammer even signed their financial threat to Lucho’s with “Best regards."
Google eventually began removing the bad reviews en masse from Lucho’s. Barbieri said; however, recent good reviews were deleted along with the fraudulent ones and that there still seems to be a further issue with their reviews page. “Something on our page is frozen. People can’t post new reviews. They go on, it looks like it’s being posted and then it’s gone,” said Barbieri.
A recent review for restaurant Lucho's that no longer appears on Google.Courtesy Kelly Barbieri / Luchos
Barbieri said that Lucho’s hasn’t gotten a review, good or bad, in over a month and she believes that even good reviews with photographs aren’t being left on her restaurant’s page. After Google removed some of the fraudulent reviews, the rating of Lucho’s has recovered to a 4.8, although Barbieri said she is unhappy that her Google reviews have been sitting at 183 reviews since June, even though she says multiple people have left positive reviews since.
“We’ve recently become aware of a scam by bad actors targeting businesses on Google with the threat of 1-star reviews unless they send money via gift cards," said a Google spokesperson in a statement to TODAY. "Our teams are working around the clock to thwart these attacks, remove fraudulent reviews, and put protections on business profiles that may have been affected.”
The spokesperson also said that Google’s policies clearly state reviews must be based on real experiences and that they use a combination of human operators and “industry-leading” technology to closely monitor for fraudulent content 24 hours a day, seven days a week. "We encourage users and business owners to flag suspicious activity to us, which helps us keep the information on Maps accurate and reliable."
If a business finds themselves the target of a scam like this, Google suggests not to pay them; instead, restaurant owners should flag the reviews on Google’s business profile help page or reach out to Google support via its help center to aid in the removal of policy-violating content.
According to Google’s article on how its review moderation systems work, it said it created strict content policies to make sure reviews are based on real-world experiences to keep irrelevant and offensive comments off of Google Business Profiles, blocking or removing more than 95 million policy-violating reviews and more than 1 million reviews that were reported directly to Google. The company adds that tech and team members disabled more than 1 million user accounts due to policy-violating activity like online vandalism or fraud.
According to Google, it has teams of trained operators, analysts and automated systems that use hundreds of cues to detect abusive behavior, such as a shift of review patterns on a business and implausible behavior patterns by reviewers.
Google also said it helps to keep information on the site accurate and reliable and when it sees unusual activity or risk for potential abuse, it routinely puts protections on business profiles to monitor and prevent policy-violating content. That can include removing related reviews or even temporarily blocking reviews, which may be what happened to Bludorn and Lucho's.
Still, even though Google said it takes actions ranging from content removal and account suspension to litigation, the immediate effect of the situation has been felt at both Bludorn, Lucho’s and beyond.
“Who knows how many people were looking because, out of any review that we have, it’s Google that is so glaring, because people could not be looking for reviews at all and still find our Google rating,” said Bludorn.
Bludorn said that his current rating of 4.6 is two-tenths of a point lower than his rating before the scam. That might not seem like much, but according to marketing company Bright Local, consumer use of Google to evaluate local businesses has leapt from 63% in 2020 to 81% in 2021, so every review matters to the viability of these businesses.
“When you search restaurants on Google Maps, and you see the restaurant name, the rating is right next to it,” he said.
“Because people count on it. Right?” Barbieri added. “If you haven’t seen a review on a restaurant in over a month, you might not go there. You may go somewhere else.”
ShareAdd TODAY to Google
Joseph Lamour
Joseph Lamour is the food reporter at TODAY.com and is based in Washington D.C.
Related
Jessie Casson / Getty Images / TODAY illustration
I Own a Food Truck. My Customers Are Either Drunk, Stoned or Health Care Professionals
Server Diaries / 
Updated Sept. 24, 2026
@britt819 via TikTok
Woman Was Denied Entry Into Supper Club Over ‘Smart Attire’ Dress Code, Suspects ‘Racial Profiling’
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 23, 2026
TODAY / @msrachelforlittles on Threads
Ms. Rachel Gave This Black-Owned Coffee Shop a Shoutout. The Owner’s Life Changed in an Instant
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 18, 2026
Matteo Della Torre/NurPhoto via Getty Images
41 Juicy Deals for National Cheeseburger Day 
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 18, 2026
Courtesy Wendy's
Wendy’s Is Bringing Back Its Iconic Yellow Packaging as Customers Crave Nostalgia
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 16, 2026
Joseph Lamour / TODAY
Woman Was Stood Up By a Date. She Decided to Host a Singles Night at the Same Restaurant
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 15, 2026
Courtesy Starbucks
It’s the Great Pumpkin (Spice Latte), Charlie Brown: Starbucks Launches Peanuts Collection
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 15, 2026
Bloomberg / Getty Images / TODAY illustration
I’m a Starbucks Barista With 3 Wildly Different Managers. One Is Just Right
Server Diaries / 
Updated Sept. 10, 2026
Courtesy Burger King
Burger King Drops Dragon Ball Super Menu — Including New Saiyan Sauce
Trending / 
Updated Sept. 1, 2026
McDonald's
McDonald’s New Happy Meal Combines SpongeBob and One Piece: See the Toys
Trending / 
Updated Aug. 31, 2026
See More
About
Contact
Help
Visit
TODAY Apps
AD Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
TERMS OF SERVICE
TERMS OF SERVICE
Careers
Closed Captioning
TODAY Sitemap
Advertise
TODAY Store
 Shop TODAY
© 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLCApple®, Apple logo® and App Store® are registered trademarks of Apple Inc.