http://web.archive.org/web/20250809145712/https://www.houstonchronicle.com/food-culture/restaurants-bars/article/Houston-restaurants-hit-by-extortion-scam-17303068.php
2026-09-26
Houston restaurants hit by scam involving negative Google reviews
 13 captures
13 Jul 2022 - 09 Aug 2025
 Jul
 AUG
 Sep
 09
 2024
 2025
 2026
success
fail
 About this capture
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20250809145712/https://www.houstonchronicle.com/food-culture/restaurants-bars/article/Houston-restaurants-hit-by-extortion-scam-17303068.php
Skip to main content
Subscribe
Local News
Trending
Suburbs
Education
Environment
Health & Medicine
Weather
Politics
Houston
Texas
U.S. & World
Business
Energy
Real Estate
Top Workplaces
Tech
Sports
Texans
Astros
Rockets
Colleges
High Schools
Dynamo & Dash
Entertainment
Food
Restaurants & Bars
Restaurant Reviews
Barbecue
Opinion
Editorials
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Interactives
Trackers
Texas Flood Map
Power Outage Tracker
Investigations
Newsletters
The 713
Texas Take
Weekend Wrap
Classifieds
Obituaries
Place an Obituary
Legal Notices
Place Legal Notices
Place Agent/Broker Ad
La Voz de Houston
Visuals
Puzzles
Podcasts
About Us
Archive
Privacy Notice
Terms of Use
Chronicle Shop
Subscribe
Food & Culture//Restaurants & Bars
High-end River Oaks restaurants join growing list in Houston blackmailed with one-star reviews
By Greg Morago, Former Food EditorUpdated 
July 14, 2022 9:20 a.m.
The interior of Ouzo Bay at the River Oaks District Dave Rossman/Contributor
Bludorn at 807 TaftGreg Morago
Multiple Houston restaurants are being targeted by a scam involving one-star Google reviews and a demand for digital gift cards to remove the negative post.
The number of restaurants being extorted has grown in the past week to include high-end River Oaks District sister restaurants Ouzo Bay and Loch Bar; Field & Tides and Maison Pucha Bistro in the Heights; and the upscale Bludorn near Montrose. The Chronicle previously reported that Daily Gather, the CityCentre restaurant owned by the hospitality group that owns Dish Society restaurants,  had also been hit up.
The New York Times reported July 11 that restaurants across the country have been targets of the scam involving negative ratings on restaurant Google pages as a bargaining chip to extort digital gift cards. 
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
In all the cases, the scam follows the same pattern where one-star reviews are posted on Google (these reviews appear when you search the restaurant on Google). The restaurant is then contacted by email by a person claiming responsibility for the post along with a request for a $75 Google Play gift card to stop the digital bombing.
The restaurants hit have received the following email:
“Hello. Unfortunately, negative feedback about your establishment has been left by us. And will appear in the future, one review a day. We sincerely apologize for our actions, and would not want to harm your business, but we have no other choice. The fact is that we live in India and see no other way to survive. We are begging you to send us Google Play gift card worth $75.” 
The email then directs the restaurant to buy the card from PayPal. “After selling this gift card we can earn approximately $50, which is three weeks of income for one family,” the scammers go on to claim.
Bludorn restaurant posted on Instagram the email left by a scammer asking for a Google Play gift card in exchange for removing one-star reviews on the restaurant posted to Google.
Ryan Studt, operating partner for Ouzo Bay and Loch Bar, said the two restaurants have been hit by about two dozen such one-star reviews, which started popping up about a week ago.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Negative reviews, Studt said, hurt a restaurant’s bottom line, “without a shadow of a doubt.”
“Especially right now when the summer went hot early, gas prices went up, and we’re seeing the highest inflation in years, people are choosing very wisely where to spend,” he said. “If you see a restaurant with a lot of one-stars you might not go there. One table not coming in is a big deal. Everyone in the city is fighting for business.”
Manuel Pucha, who along with his two brothers owns Maison Pucha Bistro, said the negative reviews began around the weekend of July 4.
“I noticed suddenly that all our reservations went down for no reason,” he said, adding that he lost business as a result of the scam.
Some restaurants, including Maison Pucha Bistro, have taken to social media to alert their customers about the scam and encourage them to recognize they have been targeted and leave positive reviews from diners who have actually visited the restaurants.
Field & Tides in the Heights posted on Instagram that the restaurant has had 12 one-star reviews from 12 different profiles. “We have reported all the fake reviews to @google and they have yet to remove them.”
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Field & Tides restaurant in the Heights posted on Instagram the email left by a scammer asking for a Google Play gift card in exchange for removing one-star reviews on the restaurant posted to Google.
Field & Tides said it did not comply with the extortion demand. “Bottom line, we will hold our ground, and we appreciate your continued support of our small business,” it wrote on Instagram.
The Nash, a downtown restaurant, received eight one-star reviews over a three- to four-day period. But it successfully had them removed.
Others are not as lucky. Aaron Bludorn, chef/owner of Bludorn on Taft, said he has not been able to remove the one-star reviews and “lost count at 30” of the negative reviews on Google.
“It feels helpless,” he said. “There’s little to no recourse. Everyone is rightly frustrated by this.”
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Even if good reviews far outweigh the scam reviews, it hurts business, Bludorn said, “because Google is the number one way people find us.”
According to The New York Times story, Google is aware of the scam. “A Google Maps spokeswoman said Monday that the platform was investigating the situation and had begun removing reviews that violated its policies” which include that reviews must be based on actual experiences, according to story.
That might be little comfort to restaurants still being scammed.
The Texas Restaurant Association has contacted Google to seek resolution. It also is working with restaurant partners such as Yelp and OpenTable to put together guidance it will share on its website and newsletter for how Texas restaurants should deal with the scam, said Kelsey Erickson Streufert, chief public affairs officer for the restaurant association.
In the meantime, she recommended that restaurants monitor their reviews, especially on Google, and flag those that appear fraudulent. She also said that communicating with the public that the restaurant has been scammed can be effective, especially leveraging the goodwill of the dining public.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
The scam comes at a particularly challenging time for restaurants that are still dealing with COVID realities and economic disruptions “that still make it incredibly difficult for restaurants to succeed,” Streufert said.
She added that the situation presents a “good teaching moment” for the general dining public about the power of reviews on platforms such as Google.
“We’re supportive of customers sharing their experiences but we have to keep in mind a degree of thoughtfulness of who is posting and what their motivations might be,” she said.
Greg Morago writes about food for the Houston Chronicle. Follow him on Facebook or Twitter. Send him news tips at greg.morago@chron.com. Hear him on our BBQ State of Mind podcast to learn about Houston and Texas barbecue culture.
July 13, 2022|Updated 
July 14, 2022 9:20 a.m.
Greg Morago
Former Food Editor
Greg Morago was the food editor at the Houston Chronicle from 2009 to 2023, responsible for writing the paper's longtime food and recipe section, covering the city's restaurant and dining scene, and helping produce food and lifestyle specialty publications.
Morago was a features editor and reporter for The Hartford Courant for 25 years before joining the Chronicle in 2009. He wrote about food, restaurants, spirits, travel, fashion and beauty. He is a native Arizonan and member of the Pima tribe of the Gila River Indian Community.
Most Popular
1.
Whataburger is offering 75-cent burgers Friday. Here's how to get one.
2.
This Houston enclave was just named the wealthiest suburb in Texas
3.
Astros-Yankees opener won't be on regular TV carrier. How to watch it.
4.
Why was Lina Hidalgo censured? Move marks first in Harris County history
5.
Lina Hidalgo censured by Harris County commissioners
Latest Lifestyle News
A DWI last month led to Saturday morning raid on after-hours club
Police called the club on Little York Road a death trap.
Astros at Yankees: How to watch as Framber Valdez pitches
The Houston Astros go for a second win in a row at the New York Yankees as Framber Valdez gets the start against Luis Gil.
New 1,000-home project extends push into Houston’s exurbs
A new 1,000-home community is rising west of Rosenberg as developers push deeper into Fort Bend County. See how the 359-acre master-planned project fits into Houston’s next wave of suburban...
Yates QB Chris Brown wants to put the Lions back on the map
Shaped by challenging times and fueled with a desire to be great, Yates senior quarterback Chris Brown is eager to put the Lions back on the Texas high school football map.
North Shore's Upton Stout puts himself in position to start for 49ers
Upton Stout, the San Francisco 49ers’ likely cornerback of the future, reached into the team’s recent past to gather input on how to approach the position.
Food Videos
Editor's Picks
Trending
Fact check: Was Altuve not let into a Houston store?
US & World News
Abbott's Operation Lone Star a bonanza for TX cities
Local
Texas seizes bar over more than $344K in unpaid taxes
Texas Politics
Border spending spree, mapped on a gameboard
Let's Play
SpellTower
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Chess
Flipart
Cross|word
Wordbind
CubeClear
Bongo
Return To Top 
AboutOur CompanyCareersOur Use of AIStandards and Practices
ContactCustomer ServiceFrequently Asked QuestionsNewsroom Contacts
ServicesArchivesAdvertising
AccountSubscribee-EditionNewsletters
About
Our Company
Careers
Our Use of AI
Standards and Practices
Contact
Customer Service
Frequently Asked Questions
Newsroom Contacts
Services
Archives
Advertising
Account
Subscribe
e-Edition
Newsletters
© 2025 Hearst Newspapers, LLCTerms of UsePrivacy NoticeDAA Industry Opt OutYour Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)