https://www.click2houston.com/news/local/2022/07/15/houston-area-businesses-say-theyve-been-targeted-by-google-review-blackmail-scam/
2026-09-26
Houston area businesses say they’ve been targeted by Google review blackmail scam
Skip to main content
Open Main Menu Navigation
Search all of Click2Houston.com
Clear icon
81º
Go to the KPRC homepage
Join InsiderSign In
Open the KPRC Click2Houston Help Desk
News
Watch Live
Weather
ENOUGH
2 Helps You
Sports
Discover
Houston Life
Newsletters
WEATHER ALERT
3 advisories in effect for 3 regions in the area
Show Breaking News Bar
Close
Local News
Bill Barajas, Anchor / Reporter
Published: 
July 14, 2022 at 7:25 PMTags: Google review blackmail scam, Google review, Houston restaurants
Sign up for our NewslettersSign Up
LATEST NEWS
Investigators used drones, security footage and phone data to identify the suspect
17-year-old in custody in connection to fatal shooting of Westbury High School student LePaul WarrenRead full article: 17-year-old in custody in connection to fatal shooting of Westbury High School student LePaul Warren
Sprinklers by Design saw 2 Helps You report on Beauty’s Community Garden and it’s positive impact on the community, owner wanted to step in and help with new sprinkler system
‘It gives riches to my soul’: Sprinkler company owner donates new system to historic community garden Read full article: ‘It gives riches to my soul’: Sprinkler company owner donates new system to historic community garden 
Juvenile suspect to remain in custody
Community mourns 15-year-old Royce Witchet shot near Westfield High SchoolRead full article: Community mourns 15-year-old Royce Witchet shot near Westfield High School
When Arizona expanded its Education Savings Account (ESA) program statewide in 2022, it opened the door to a different approach to educating children.
What Arizona’s ESA program shows Texas families about school choice, oversight and public school fundingRead full article: What Arizona’s ESA program shows Texas families about school choice, oversight and public school funding
Local News
Houston area businesses say they’ve been targeted by Google review blackmail scam
Bill Barajas, Anchor / Reporter
Published: 
July 14, 2022 at 7:25 PMTags: Google review blackmail scam, Google review, Houston restaurants
HOUSTON – A fraudulent scheme that bombards Houston area restaurants with bad Google reviews appears to be part of a growing trend across the country.
One of their latest victims is Travis Lenig the owner and chef at Field and Tides in The Heights.
Lenig said on July 5 he received an email request from a person claiming to be from India.
“I received an email from these people, extorting us, saying if we didn’t send them a certain amount ($75) on a gift card, they would start writing bad reviews. I, of course, just ignored it,” said Lenig.
Lenig told KPRC 2 that 20 to 30 bad reviews followed his decision, and he quickly realized he wasn’t the only victim.
“It’s happened to Daily Gather, Bludorn, Piatto Ristorante, and that’s just to name a few,” Lenig said.
He said he filed a complaint with Google. He also notified customers through social media, and they quickly came to his rescue.
Lenig said some customers began leaving 5-star reviews while others chose to support the business by dining in.
“Their lunch is awesome. Their dinner is great. Their vibe is even better,” said customer Natalie McArthur. “We don’t want to see a place like this go under.”
KPRC 2 reached out to the Texas Restaurant Association and learned that the same scam has been reported in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco.
They suggest restaurant owners flag the bad reviews immediately and contact their offices.
“Feel free to reach out to us at the Texas Restaurant Association. We are happy to play that intermediary role and make sure get the help they need,” said spokeswoman for Texas Restaurant Association Kelsey Erickson Streufert.
Copyright 2022 by KPRC Click2Houston - All rights reserved.
About the Author
Bill Barajas headshot
Bill Barajas
Reporter, proud Houstonian, U of H alumni, and lover of all the hometown sport teams.
email
facebook
twitter
instagram
Your injury claim may be bigger than just the bills
Your injury claim may be bigger than just the bills
How Hurricane Polo could impact us next week
How Hurricane Polo could impact us next week
Community mourns 15-year-old Royce Witchet shot near Westfield High School
Community mourns 15-year-old Royce Witchet shot near Westfield High School
Student describes moments after classmate killed
Student describes moments after classmate killed
Westbury senior who was shot and killed identified as LePaul Warren
Westbury senior who was shot and killed identified as LePaul Warren
Chief Noe Diaz on shooting near Westbury High School
Chief Noe Diaz on shooting near Westbury High School
At the scene of a fatal shooting near Westbury High School
At the scene of a fatal shooting near Westbury High School
Developing: Shooting near Westbury High School leaves a 17-year-old senior dead.
Developing: Shooting near Westbury High School leaves a 17-year-old senior dead.
Fatal shooting, outside of Westbury High School
Fatal shooting, outside of Westbury High School
HPD: Shooting reported near Westbury High School
HPD: Shooting reported near Westbury High School
Prescription costs adding up?
Prescription costs adding up?
It's Dolly Parton Day!
It's Dolly Parton Day!
FIRST LOOK FORECAST
FIRST LOOK FORECAST
Fort Bend County Fair's 90th anniversary kick off parade
Fort Bend County Fair's 90th anniversary kick off parade
HISD cuts campus budgets and positions as enrollment falls
HISD cuts campus budgets and positions as enrollment falls
14-year-old accused of killing teen near Houston school: Can he face adult charges?
14-year-old accused of killing teen near Houston school: Can he face adult charges?
Salgado Araujo sons demand ICE accountability
Salgado Araujo sons demand ICE accountability
Rain and cooler temperatures look possible next week
Rain and cooler temperatures look possible next week
Arrestan joven de 14 años por la muerte de royce
Arrestan joven de 14 años por la muerte de royce
14-year-old arrested in Royce's killing
14-year-old arrested in Royce's killing
Previous video
Next video
BACK TO TOP
TV Listings
Email Newsletters
RSS Feeds
Contests and Rules
Contact Us
Meet the Team
Careers at KPRC
Closed Captioning / Audio Description
Public File
Current EEO Report
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Info
FCC Applications
Cookie Preferences
Follow Us
Visit our YouTube page (opens in a new tab)
Visit our Facebook page (opens in a new tab)
Visit our Instagram page (opens in a new tab)
Visit our X page (opens in a new tab)
Visit our RSS Feed page (opens in a new tab)
Get Results With Omne
If you need help with the Public File, call (713) 778-4745
At KPRC, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence.
Copyright © 2026 Click2Houston.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.