https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/06/federal-trade-commission-returns-more-97-million-small-businesses-harmed-yellowstone-capitals
fetched 2026-09-26

Tags:
Consumer Protection
Bureau of Consumer Protection
Credit & Loan Offers
deceptive/misleading conduct
consumer refunds
Finance
Credit and Finance
Credit and Loans
Debt
Debt Collection
Small Business
The Federal Trade Commission is sending 7,731 checks totaling more than $9.7 million to small businesses who were harmed by Yellowstone Capital, a merchant cash advance company that withdrew money from their bank accounts without permission.
Eligible businesses are getting 51% of their money back, averaging more than $1,200 for each check. Recipients should cash their checks within 90 days, as indicated on the check. Businesses who have questions about their refund should call the refund administrator, Epiq, at 855-604-1861. The Commission never requires people to pay money or provide account information to get a refund.
The FTC sued Yellowstone and its owners
 in 2020, alleging that they unlawfully withdrew millions of dollars in excess payments from their customers’ accounts. The complaint alleged that Yellowstone continued to withdraw hundreds or thousands of dollars from businesses after they had repaid the full amounts owed in their contracts. In some cases, Yellowstone would only refund this money when businesses complained, and even then the refunds could take weeks or months, leaving small businesses without needed cash on hand.
In 2021, 
Yellowstone agreed to a court order
 that required them to surrender funds to the FTC, which the FTC is using to provide refunds. The order also prohibits the defendants from misleading consumers or withdrawing money without authorization and requires them to monitor companies working on their behalf.
The Commission’s 
interactive dashboards for refund data
 provide a state-by-state breakdown of Commission refunds. In 2020, Commission actions led to more than $483 million in refunds to consumers across the country, but the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2021 that the Commission lacks authority under Section 13(b) to seek monetary relief in federal court going forward. The 
Commission has urged Congress
 to restore the Commission’s ability to get money back for consumers.
The Federal Trade Commission works to promote competition and 
protect and educate consumers
. The FTC will never demand money, make threats, tell you to transfer money, or promise you a prize. Learn more about consumer topics at 
consumer.ftc.gov
, or report fraud, scams, and bad business practices at 
ReportFraud.ftc.gov
. Follow the 
FTC on social media
, read 
consumer alerts
 and the 
business blog
, and 
sign up to get the latest FTC news and alerts
.
Press Release Reference
 FTC Alleges Merchant Cash Advance Provider Overcharged Small Businesses Millions 
Cash Advance Firm to Pay $9.8M to Settle FTC Complaint It Overcharged Small Businesses
Contact Information
Contact for Consumers
Epiq
Refund Administrator
855-604-1861
Media Contact
Jay Mayfield
Office of Public Affairs
202-326-2180
Related Cases
Yellowstone Capital LLC, FTC v.
Related Refunds
Yellowstone Capital Refunds
Topics
Debt Collection
Protecting Small Businesses
Return to top
