https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/public_statements/1578831/chopra_statement_on_yellowstone.pdf
fetched 2026-09-26
                                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                                          Federal Trade Commission
                                              WASHINGTON, D.C. 20580




    Office of Commissioner
         Rohit Chopra


                                         STATEMENT OF
                                   COMMISSIONER ROHIT CHOPRA
                                    Regarding Yellowstone Capital, LLC
                                       Commission File No. 1823202
                                              August 3, 2020

Small businesses across America are struggling to stay afloat due to the impact of COVID-19,
and millions are expected to fail.1
Unfortunately, many small businesses were unable to access the Paycheck Protection Program
(PPP). Our nation’s largest banks have been accused of steering limited PPP dollars to their
richest clients, shutting out many local businesses.2 Minority-owned businesses are especially
struggling to access PPP and other forms of credit.3
I am concerned that this is opening the door to even more predatory actors looking to profit from
the pain of small business owners. Today, the Federal Trade Commission is charging
Yellowstone Capital with misleading borrowers about key financing terms and withdrawing
funds that the company was not even owed. This follows an action last month, when the
Commission charged Richmond Capital Group with targeting small businesses with illegal
financing and collection practices.4
As the Commission proceeds into litigation in these matters and further studies this market, I
hope that we will uncover additional information about business practices in this opaque
industry. In particular, we should closely scrutinize the marketing claim that these payday-style
products are “flexible,” with payments contingent on the credit card receivables of a small
business. In reality, this structure may be a sham, since many of these products require fixed
daily payments, and lenders can file “confessions of judgment” upon any slowdown in payments,
with no notice or due process for borrowers.5


1
  See Michael Powe & Matthew Wagner, THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON SMALL BUSINESS, MAIN STREET AMERICA
(Apr. 2020), https://www.mainstreet.org/blogs/national-main-street-center/2020/04/09/new-report-the-impact-of-
covid-19-on-small-busines.
2
  See Stephen Gandel, Biggest banks "prioritized" larger clients for small business loans, lawsuits claim, CBS NEWS
(Apr. 20, 2020), https://www.cbsnews.com/news/paycheck-protection-program-big-banks-loans-larger-clients-over-
smaller-businesses/.
3
  See Ivette Feleciano & Connie Kargbo, Why minority-owned businesses are struggling to get PPP loans, PBS
NEWS HOUR (Jun. 20, 2020), https://www.pbs.org/newshour/show/why-minority-owned-businesses-are-struggling-
to-get-ppp-loans.
4
  FTC v. RGC Advances, LLC, FED. TRADE COMM’N, https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/cases-proceedings/192-
3252/rcg-advances-llc, (last visited on Jul. 29, 2020).
5
  Confessions of judgment are take-it-or-leave it contract terms that force borrowers to confess judgment –
essentially, plead guilty – without any notice or hearing. While litigation can halt some of the worst practices, the

                                                         1
This raises serious questions as to whether these “merchant cash advance” products are actually
closed-end installment loans, subject to federal and state protections including anti-
discrimination laws, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and usury caps.6 The stakes are
high for millions of small businesses.
Predatory lending is not the only area where the FTC has a critical role in combatting harms
targeting small businesses. In fact, the Commission has a long list of responsibilities. For
example, Congress has entrusted the FTC to ensure that businesses, like local stores and
restaurants, have choices when it comes to processing debit card transactions, so that they aren’t
gouged with fees.7 The agency is also responsible for policing markets for anticompetitive
mergers and conduct, which can block small businesses from even getting off the ground.
The FTC also has unique responsibilities in the franchise market. Many small businesses in the
United States are structured as franchises, and a disproportionate number of them are minority-
owned. There are a host of troubling trends and practices in this market, including reports of
franchisors engaging in practices that disadvantage their own franchisees.8 The FTC can tackle
these practices through its authority under the FTC Act, as well as through its administration of
the Franchise Rule, which is currently under review.
Across the board, it is critical that the FTC do everything in its power to ensure fairness for small
businesses and new market entrants. Today’s lawsuit against Yellowstone Capital is an important
step. The FTC will need to build on this work to ensure that our markets are serving small
businesses, not exploiting them.




Commission should consider whether it would be appropriate to ban the use of these terms altogether, as we did in
1984 with respect to consumer contracts. See Prepared Remarks of Federal Trade Commissioner Rohit Chopra at the
Forum on Small Business Financing in Washington, D.C. (May 8, 2019), https://www.ftc.gov/public-
statements/2019/05/prepared-remarks-commissioner-rohit-chopra-forum-small-business-financing. In fact, many of
the Commission’s findings in the 1980s about the problems with these terms appear equally applicable in the small
business lending context. See Fed. Trade Comm’n, Trade Regulation Rule; Credit Practices, 49 Fed. Reg. 7740
(March 1, 1984) (finding that confessions caused substantial injury that borrowers generally could not avoid, with
no clear benefits in terms of access to credit).
6
  See N.Y. State Office of the Att’y Gen., Press Release, Attorney General James Sues Predatory Lender That
Threatened Violence and Kidnapping, and Illegally Collected Millions from Small Businesses (Jun. 10, 2020),
https://ag.ny.gov/press-release/2020/attorney-general-james-sues-predatory-lender-threatened-violence-and-
kidnapping (alleging that Richmond Capital’s “merchant cash advance” products were actually criminally usurious
loans).
7
  See 15 U.S.C. § 1693o–2.
8
  See, e.g., Tiffany Hsu & Rachel Abrams, Subway Got Too Big. Franchisees Paid a Price., THE N.Y. TIMES (Jun.
28, 2019), https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/28/business/subway-franchisees.html.

                                                        2
