https://www.claimdepot.com/settlements/yellowstone-mca-settlement
fetched 2026-09-26

Settlements
No Proof
data breach
resources
Investigations
Law Firms
News
Calendar
about us
Subscribe
Home
>
Class Action Settlements
Yellowstone Capital $16.1M Merchant Cash Advance Settlement
If your small business received a merchant cash advance from Yellowstone Capital, you may qualify to claim relief from a $16.1M class action settlement.
Loading the 
Elevenlabs Text to Speech
 AudioNative Player...
Yellowstone Capital $16.1M Merchant Cash Advance Settlement
Weekly Newsletter
Class actions settlements delivered to your inbox.
By subscribing you agree to our 
Privacy Policy
Thank you! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Published
April 2, 2025 1:48 PM
Updated
August 27, 2026
Post a Comment
Payment update:
 According to the OAG website, settlement payments were issued to approved claimants on April 3, 2026.
If you received a merchant cash advance (MCA) from Yellowstone Capital or any of its subsidiaries, you may be eligible to submit a claim for
relief from a 
$16.1 million class action settlement
.
Yellowstone Capital has agreed to pay $16.1 million to settle a class action lawsuit filed by the New York Attorney General (OAG). The lawsuit alleged that Yellowstone Capital and its subsidiaries provided illegal, high-interest loans to small businesses, falsely labeling them as merchant cash advances. 
The OAG further alleged that Yellowstone employed deceptive and fraudulent practices to collect these debts, violating state laws.
Who is eligible for settlement benefits?
You qualify as a class member if: 
You received a merchant cash advance from Yellowstone Capital or any of its subsidiaries.
You had an outstanding MCA debt owed to Yellowstone or its subsidiaries.
Yellowstone or its subsidiaries filed a lawsuit against you or your business related to an MCA.
Yellowstone or its subsidiaries obtained a court judgment against you or your business.
Yellowstone or its subsidiaries filed a UCC lien against your business or property.
The following companies are included under the Yellowstone Capital umbrella:
Yellowstone Capital LLC
Merchant Capital Pay LLC
ABC Merchant Solutions, LLC
Merchant Funding Services LLC
Advance Merchant Services LLC
Midnight Advance Capital LLC
Business Advance Team LLC
Mr. Advance Capital LLC
Capital Advance Services LLC
Ocean 1213 LLC
Capital Merchant Services, LLC
Simply Equities LLC
Cash Village Funding LLC
TVT Cap Fund LLC
Fast Cash Advance LLC
TVT Capital HR, LLC
Fundry LLC
Thryve Capital Funding LLC
Fundzio LLC
WCM Funding LLC
Green Capital Funding LLC
West Coast Business Capital LLC (formerly Yellowstone Capital West)
HFH Merchant Services LLC
World Global Capital LLC
High Speed Capital LLC
Who is excluded from the class?
This settlement excludes merchant cash advances provided by Delta Bridge Funding (Cloudfund) or any other MCA company not listed above.
What does the settlement provide?
Class members can receive the following relief:
Automatic Debt Cancellation
: All outstanding MCA debts owed to Yellowstone or its subsidiaries have been automatically canceled, including any remaining balances from previous settlement agreements with Yellowstone.
Dismissal of Pending Lawsuits
: Any ongoing lawsuits filed by Yellowstone against merchants will be dismissed.
Vacating Court Judgments
: Merchants with an unsatisfied court judgment against them by Yellowstone can submit a claim to have their judgment vacated.
Termination of UCC Liens
: Merchants can submit a claim to request termination of active UCC liens filed by Yellowstone against their business or property.
Monetary Funds: The settlement also includes a monetary fund of $16.1 million, some of which will go to affected merchants. The Attorney General's office will determine distribution amounts at a later date.
Do I need to submit a claim?
Merchants with outstanding MCA debt with Yellowstone have received automatic debt cancellation and do not need to submit a claim.
Merchants with with a UCC lien filed by Yellowstone that is less than five years old must submit a claim by July 8, 2025 to terminate the lien.
Merchants with a Yellowstone court judgment that is not satisfied must submit a claim by January 9, 2026 to have the judgment vacated.
Claim instructions and deadlines
Merchants must submit an 
online claim form
 using the Claimant ID and Access Code in the notice.
UCC Lien Termination claims must be filed by July 8, 2025.
Court Judgment Vacate claims must be filed by January 9, 2026.
Is proof required to submit a claim?
Additional documentation is not required to submit a claim. Merchants that did not receive a notice but believe you qualify to file, can email the settlement administrator with your name and the EIN of the business that the MCA was issued to.
Settlement Administrator Email Address:
 info@yellowstonesettlement.com
$16.1 Million settlement fund
The settlement fund of $16.1 million is designated primarily for merchant relief. This amount is in addition to $3.37 million previously collected through earlier settlements involving Yellowstone individuals.
The breakdown of the settlement funds will include:
Payments to class members
: Amount to be determined at a later date
Attorneys' fees
: Not specified
Settlement administration costs
: Not specified
Important dates
Deadline to File a Claim for Judgment Vacating
: January 9, 2026
Deadline to File a Claim for UCC Lien Termination
: July 8, 2025
Why did Yellowstone Capital settle this lawsuit?
The New York Attorney General alleged that Yellowstone Capital and its subsidiaries were providing illegal loans disguised as merchant cash advances, charging interest rates higher than allowed by state law, and employing deceptive collection practices. 
Yellowstone Capital agreed to settle without admitting wrongdoing, committing to debt cancellation, judgment vacating, lien termination, and permanently exiting the MCA industry.
Sources
Official Settlement Website FAQ Page
New York Attorney General's Press Release
Settlement Open for Claims
Award:
Varies
Deadline:
January 9, 2026
SUBMIT CLAIM
Settlements Database
Find any open class action settlement.
Browse Settlements >
Weekly Newsletter
Class actions settlements delivered to your inbox.
By subscribing you agree to our 
Privacy Policy
Thank you! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Settlement Summary
Status
Closed
Category
Banking
Settlement Amount
$16,100,000
Estimated Payout per person
Varies
Is Proof Required?
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Days Remaining to file Claim
156
Claim Deadline
January 9, 2026
Fairness Hearing
Final Approval Hearing
January 16, 2025
Case Number
450750/2024
Case Title
People of the State of New York v. Yellowstone Capital LLC et al.
Court
Jurisdiction
Settlement Website
https://www.yellowstonesettlement.com/
Settlement Administrator
Rust Consulting
Rust Consulting
info@yellowstonesettlement.com
Class Counsel
Office of the New York State Attorney General
Trending Settlements
Consumer Protection
Amazon $309.5 Million Return Policy Class Action Settlement
False Advertising
Apple iPhone $250M False Advertising Class Action Settlement
Consumer Protection
$167.5 Million Nonbank ATM Surcharge Class Action Settlement
Product Liability
MG217 Shampoo $1.2 Million Benzene Class Action Settlement
Privacy
Forbes Media $10M Website Tracking Class Action Settlement
Comments
Notice Letter
This browser does not support inline PDFs. Please download the PDF to view it: 
Download PDF
Subscribe to the Claim Depot weekly settlements newsletter
96% of settlement funds go 
unclaimed
. Be part of the 4% by subscribing to the Claim Depot newsletter and never missing a settlement.
By subscribing you agree to our 
Privacy Policy
Thank you! Your submission has been received!
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Recent Class Action Settlements
September 25, 2026
Northeast Grocery $225,000 401(k) Class Action Settlement
September 25, 2026
Schenker $1.28 Million FCRA Background Check Settlement
September 25, 2026
Telmate $4.23 Million Data Breach Class Action Settlement
September 25, 2026
LHNH LaVista $8.45M Apartment Fire Class Action Settlement
ALL OPEN SETTLEMENTS
Class Action Lawsuits & Settlements News
Subscribe to our weekly class actions newsletter.
By subscribing you agree to our 
Privacy Policy
Thank you! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
96% of settlement funds go 
unclaimed
. Be part of the 4% by subscribing to the Claim Depot newsletter and never missing a settlement.
Class Action Settlements
News
Data Breach
Lawsuits to Join
Lawsuits by Category
Lawsuits by Class Counsel
Lawsuits by Settlement Administrator
Lawsuits by Stage
No Proof Settlements
About us
Newsletter
Learn
Contact us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Consent Preferences
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Copyright © 2026 Claim Depot LLC
