https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/cases/x200054yellowstonestipulatedorder.pdf
fetched 2026-09-26
                           UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                          SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK


FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION,                                  Case No. 1:20-cv-06023-LAK

        Plaintiff,

        V.
                                                           STIPULATED ORDER FOR
 YELLOWSTONE CAPITAL LLC, a New York                       PERMANENT INJUNCTION AND
 limited liability company,                                MONETARY JUDGMENT

 FUN DRY LLC, a New York limited liability
 company,

 YITZHAK D. STERN, a/k/a Isaac Stem,
 individually and as an officer of Yellowstone
 Capital LLC and Fundry LLC, and

 JEFFREY REECE, individually and as an officer
 of Yellowstone Capital LLC and Fundry LLC,

        Defendants.


       Plaintiff, the Federal Trade Commission ("Commission" or "FTC"), filed its Complaint

for Permanent Injunction and Other Equitable Relief ( "Complaint"), for a pennanent injunction,

and other equitable relief in this matter, pursuant to Section l 3(b) of the Federal Trade

Commission Act ("FTC Act"), J5.JJ.S.C§53(b}. The Commission and Defendants stipulate to

the entry of this Stipulated Order for Pennanent Injunction and Monetary Judgment ("Order") to

resolve all matters in dispute in this action between them.

       THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED as follows:

                                            FINDINGS

1.     This Court has jurisdiction over this matter.
2.     The Complaint charges that Defendants participated in deceptive and unfair acts or

practices in violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act,15 0$.C. § :12, in the advertising, marketing,

offering, and servicing of small business financing.

3.     Defendants neither admit nor deny any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as

specifically stated in this Order. Only for purposes of this action, Defendants admit the facts

necessary to establish jurisdiction.

4.     Defendants waive any claim that they may have under the Equal Access to Justice Act,

28 U.S.C~§2412, concerning the prosecution of this action through the date of this Order, and

agree to bear their own costs and attorneys' fees. Defendants waive and release any

claims that they may have against the Commission and its agents that relate to this action.

5.     The parties agree that this Order resolves all allegations in the Complaint.

6.     Defendants and the Commission waive all lights to appeal or otherwise challenge or

contest the validity of this Order.

                                         DE.FINITIONS

       For the purpose of this Order, the following definitions apply:

        A. "Clear(ly) and Conspicuous(ly)" means that a required disclosure is difficult to miss

            (i.e., easily noticeable) and easily understandable by ordinary consumers, including in

            all of the following ways:

                1. In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure

                    must be made through the same means through which the communication is

                    presented. In any communication made through both visual and audible

                    means, such as a television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented




                                                 2
          simultaneously in both the visual and audible portions of the communication

          even if the representation requiring the disclosure is made in only one means.

      2. A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it appears,

          and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying text or other

          visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood.

      3. An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be

          delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers

          to easily hear and understand it.

      4. In any communication using an interactive electronic medium , such as the

          Internet or software, the disclosure must be unavoidable.

      5. The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary

          consumers and must appear in each language in which the representation that

          requires the disclosure appears.

      6. The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through

          which it is received, including all electronic devices and face-to-face

          communications.

      7. The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent with,

          anything else in the communication.

      8. When the representation or sales practice targets a specific audience, such as

          children, the elderly, or the terminally ill, "ordinary consumers" includes

          reasonable members of that group.

B.   "Defendants" means all of the Individual Defendants and the Corporate

     Defendants, individually, collectively, or in any combination.



                                         3
        1. ''Corporate Defendants" means Yellowstone Capital LLC and Fundry LLC,

            and their successors and assigns.

        2. "individual Defendants" means Yitzhak D. Stem, a/k/a Isaac Stern, and

            Jeffrey Reece.

C. "Express Informed Consent" means an affirmative act communicating

     unambiguous assent to be charged, made after receiving and in close proximity to a

     Clear and Conspicuous Disclosure of all material infonnation related to the charge.

D. "Financing Product or Service" means any product or service represented,

     expressly or by implication, to provide or assist in providing, directly or indirectly,

     funds in exchange for future receivables, revenues, proceeds, or other payments or

     amounts.

E.   "Funder" means any entity, organization, or sole proprietorship, or any person not

     otherwise affi liated with any entity, organization or sole proprietorship, that

     underwrites, funds, services, or assists in obtaining repayment of Financing Products

     or Services for Defendants' consumers.

F. "Marketer" means any entity, organization, or sole proprietorship, or any person not

     otherwise affiliated with any entity, organization or sole proprietorship, that works

     with or for Defendants to assist Defendants in marketing, advertising, brokering,

     selling, or acquiring consumers interested in Defendants' Financing Products or

     Services.




                                            4
                                             ORDER

               I.      PROHIBITION AGAINST MISREPRESENTATIONS

       IT IS ORDERED that Defendants, Defendants' officers, agents, employees, and

attorneys, and all others in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual

notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with advertising,

marketing, promoting, distributing, servicing, or offering any Financing Product or Service, arc

pem1anently restrained and enjoined from misrepresenting, or assisting others in

misrepresenting, expressly or by implication:

       A. Any requirements for obtaining the Financing Product or Service, including but not

           limited to whether consumers are required to provide Defendants with a personal

           guarantee, security interest, collateral, or any other rights or remedies;

       B. The existence, amount, or timing of any fees or charges, or the total amount

           consumers will repay;

       C. The amount of funds consumers will receive or will likely receive; or

       D. Any other material fact about the performance, costs, benefits, or characteristics of

           the Financing Product or Service.

                              11.     REQUIRED DISCLOSURES

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defondants, Defendants' officers, agents, employees,

and attorneys, and all others in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive

actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with adve1tising,

marketing, promoting, distributing, servicing, or offering any Financing Product or Service, are

permanently restrained and enjoined from making any representation, or assisting others in

making any representation, expressly or by implication, regarding the amount of funds



                                                  5
consumers will receive or the amount consumers will repay, unless Defendants disclose Clearly

and Conspicuously, and in close proximity to the representation:

       A. The existence, amount, and timing of any fees or charges;

        B. Iffees or charges will reduce the amount of funds that consumers will receive at the

           time of funding, that fact; and the specific amount of funds consumers will receive

           after paying those foes and charges; and

       C. The total amount consumers will repay (absent the future assessment of any fees or

           charges for any breach or default by the consumer);

and the claim is not otherwise misleading.

            Ill.    PROHIBITION AGAINST UNFAIR BILLING PRACTICES

        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants, Defendants' officers, agents, employees,

and attorneys and all others in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive

actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, are permanently restrained and

enjoined from causing debits or withdrawals to be made from any consumer's bank or other

financial account, or from billing any consumer for any charge, without the consumer's Express

Informed Consent.

           IV.     REQUIREMENTS REGARDING MARKETERS AND FUNDERS

        lT IS FURTHER ORDER.ED that Defendants shall, as a condition of doing business with

any Marketer or Funder, establish, implement, and thereafter maintain a system to monitor their

Marketers and Funders to ensure compliance with this Order. This system shall include, but not

be limited to:

        A. Providing each Marketer and Funder with a copy of this Order;

        B. Requiring that each Marketer and Funder provide Defendants with a signed and dated


                                                 6
   acknowledgement of receipt of this Order;

C. Clearly and conspicuously disclosing to the Marketer or Funder in writing that

   engaging in the acts or practices prohibited by this Order will result in immediate

   termination of any business relationship between Defendants and such Marketer or

   Funder, and forfeiture of all monies owed to such Marketer or Funder;

D. Requiring that each Marketer and Funder provide the Order and any other

   infonnation required by this Subsection to each of its employees and agents that may

   do business with Defendants;

E. Promptly investigating any complaints that Defendants receive through any source to

   determine whether any Marketer or Funder has engaged in acts or practices prohibited

   by this Order;

F. Immediately terminating and ceasing payment to any Marketer or Funder who

   Defendants reasonably conclude has engaged in acts or practices prohibited by this

   Order; and

G. To the extent Defendants terminate any business relationship with any Marketer or

   Funder for engaging in acts or practices prohibited by this Order, Defendants shall

   maintain records detailing the circumstances of such termination, and will take

   reasonable steps to ensure that Defendants will not do business with the Marketer or

   Funder or their principals .


  V.      MONETARY JUDGMENT FOR EQUITABLE MONETARY RELIEF

IT TS FURTHER ORDERED that:

A. Judgment in the amount of Nine Million, Eight Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand

   Dollars ($9,837,000.00) is entered in favor of the Commission against Lndividual

                                       7
   Defendants and Corporate Defendants, jointly and severally, as equitable monetary

   relief.

B. Defendants are ordered to pay to the Commission Nine Million, Eight Hundred Thirty

   Seven Thousand Dollars ($9,837,000.00), which, as Defendants stipulate, their

   undersigned counsel holds in escrow for no purpose other than payment to the

   Commission. Such payment must be made within 30 days of entry of this Order by

   electronic fund transfer in accordance with instructions previously provided by a

   representative of the Commission.

               VI.   ADDITIONAL MONET ARY PROVISIONS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

A. Defendants relinquish dominion and all legal and equitable right, title, and interest in

   all assets transferred pursuant to this Order and may not seek the return of any assets.

B. The facts alleged in the Complaint will be taken as true, without further proof, in any

   subsequent civil litigation by or on behalf of the Commission, including in a

   proceeding to enforce its rights to any payment or monetary judgment pursuant to this

   Order, such as a nondischargeability complaint in any bankruptcy case.

C. The facts alleged in the Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustain an

    action by the Commission pursuant to Section 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code,

   ll _U. S,C.§ 523(a)(2)(A), and this Order will have collateral estoppel effect for such

   purposes.

D. Defendants acknowledge that their Taxpayer Identification Numbers (Social Security

   Numbers or Employer Identification Numbers), which Defendants previously




                                          8
           submitted to the Commission, may be used for collecting and reporting on any

           delinquent amount arising out of this Order, in accordance with 31 U,S.C~l:i1701.

        E. All money paid to the Commission pursuant to this Order may be deposited into a

           fund administered by the Commission or its dcsignee to be used for equitable relief,

           including consumer redress and any attendant expenses for the administration of any

           redress fund. lf a representative of the Commission decides that direct redress to

           consumers is wholly or partially impracticable or money remains after redress is

           completed, the Commission may apply any remaining money for such other equitable

           relief(including consumer information remedies) as it determines to be reasonably

           related to Defendants' practices alleged in the Complaint. Any money not used for

           such equitable relief is to be deposited to the U.S. Treasury as disgorgement.

           Defendants have no right to challenge any actions the Commission or its

           representatives may take pursuant to this Subsection.

                            VII.    CUSTOMER INFORMATION

        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants, Defendants' officers, agents, employees,

and attorneys, and all others in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive

actual notice of this Order, are permanently restrained and enjoined from directly or indirectly

failing to provide their customer information to enable the Commission to efficiently administer

consumer redress. Defendants represent that they have provided this redress information to the

Commission. If a representative of the Commission requests in writing any infonnation related

to redress, Defendants must provide it, in the form prescribed by the Commission, within 14

days.




                                                 9
                           VIII. ORDER ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

         IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants obtain acknowledgments ofreceipt of this

Order:

         A. Each Defendant, within 7 days of entry of this Order, must submit to the Commission

            an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under penalty of perjury.

         B. For a period of 10 years after entry of this Order for each Corporate Defendant and

            Individual Defendant Yitzhak Stem, and for a period of 3 years after entry of this

            Order for Individual Defendant Jeffrey Reece, for any business that such Defendant,

            individually or collectively with any other Defendants, is the majority owner or

            controls directly or indirectly, and each Corporate Defendant, must deliver a copy of

            this Order to: (I) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC managers and members;

            (2) all employees having managerial responsibilities for conduct related to the subject

            matter of the Order and all agents and representatives that participate in conduct

            related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any business entity resulting from

            any change in structure as set forth in the Section titled Compliance Repotting.

            Delivery must occur within 7 days of entry of this Order for current personnel. For

            all others, delivery must occur before they assume their responsibilities.

         C. From each individual or entity to which a Defendant delivered a copy of this Order,

            that Defendant must obtain, within 30 days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of

            receipt of this Order.

                              IX.    COMPLIANCE REPORTING

         IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants make timely submissions to the

Commission:
A. One year after entry of this Order, each Defendant must submit a compliance report,

   sworn under penalty of pe1jury:

       1. Each Defendant must: (a) identify the primary physical, postal, and email

           address and telephone number, as designated points of contact, which

           representatives of the Commission may use to communicate with Defendant;

           (b) identify all of that Defendant's businesses by all of their names, telephone

           numbers, and physical , postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the

           activities of each business, including the goods and services offered, the

           means of advertising, marketing, and sales, and the involvement of any other

           Defendant (which Individual Defendants must describe if they know or should

           know due to their own involvement); (d) describe in detail whether and how

           that Defendant is in compliance with each Section of this Order; and (c)

           provide a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained pursuant to this

           Order, unless previously submitted to the Commission.

       2. Additionally, each Individual Defendant must: (a) identify all telephone

           numbers and all physical, postal, email and Internet addresses, including all

           residences; (b) identify all business activities, including any business for

           which such Defendant performs services whether as an employee or otherwise

           and any entity in which such Defendant has any ownership interest; and (c)

           describe in detail such Defendant's involvement in each such business,

           including title, role, responsibilities, participation, authority, control, and any

           ownership.




                                          11
B. For 10 years after entry of this Order, each Defendant must submit a compliance

   notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within 14 days of any change in the following:

       1. Each Defendant must report any change in: (a) any designated point of

           contact; or (b) the structure of any Corporate Defendant or any entity that

          Defendant has any ownership interest in or controls directly or indirectly that

           may affect compliance obligations arising under this Order, including:

           creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any subsidiary, parent, or

           affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order.

       2. Additionally, each Individual Defendant must report any change in: (a) name,

           including aliases or fictitious name, or residence address; or (b) title or role in

           any business activity, including any business for which such Defendant

           performs services whether as an employee or otherwise and any entity in

           which such Defendant has any ownership interest, and identify the name,

           physical address, and any Internet address of the business or entity.

C. Each Defendant must submit to the Commission notice of the filing of any

   bankruptcy petition, insolvency proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against such

   Defendant within 14 days of its filing.

D. Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty

   of perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C._§ J 74Q. such as by

   concluding: "I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of

   America that the foregoing is trnc and correct. Executed on: _ _" and supplying

   the date, signatory's full name, title (if applicable), and signature.




                                          12
       E. Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions

           to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or

           sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for

           Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600

           Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580. The subject line must begin:

           FTC v. Yellowstone Capital LLC.

                                  X.      RECORDKEEPING

       IT TS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants must create certain records for 10 years

after entry of the Order, and retain each such record for 5 years. Specifically, Corporate

Defendants in connection with Financing Products or Services and each Individual Defendant for

any business that such Defendant, individually or collectively with any other Defendants, is a

majority owner or controls directly or indirectly, must create and retain the following records:

       A. accounting records showing the revenues from a11 goods or services sold;

       B. personnel records showing, for each person providing services, whether as an

           employee or othenvise, that person's: name; addresses; telephone numbers; job title

           or position; dates of service; and (if applicable) the reason for termination;

       C. records of all consumer complaints and refund requests, whether received directly or

           indirectly, such as through a third party that provides or is authorized to provide such

           records to Defendants, and any response;

       D. all records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each provision of this

           Order, including all submissions to the Commission;

       E. a copy of each unique advertisement or other marketing material; and




                                                 13
       F. that Defendants create for a period of 10 years, and retain for a period of 5 years, the

           following data for each and every Financing Product or Service any Defendant has

           provided to consumers:

               1. the total amount of receivables, revenues, proceeds, or other payments that the

               Defendant has purchased;

               2. the daily or other periodic payment amount stated in the contract;

               3. the date of the consumer's first daily or other periodic payment;

               4. the date of the consumer' s final daily or periodic payment applied to the

               purchased receivables, revenues, proceeds, or other payments;

               5. the total amount the consumer actually paid to the Defendant (before, if

               applicable, any refund was provided); and

               6. any refund amount the Defendant provided, along with the date of that refund.

                              XI.      COMPLIANCE MONITORL~G

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Defendants ' compliance

with this Order and any failure to transfer any assets as required by this Order:

       A. Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the

           Commission, each Defendant must submit additional compliance reports or other

           requested information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury; appear for

           depositions; and produce documents for inspection and copying. The Commission is

           also authorized to obtain discovery, without further leave of court, using any of the

           procedures prescribed by :E~<iYI~LR..J.!-kttPJf;::ivi.LP.r9.£~d.tJ.rn.2-.2, ;3.Q (including

           telephonic depositions), 31, 33, 34, 36, 45, and 69 .




                                                      14
       B. For matters concerning this Order, the Commission is authorized to communicate

           directly with each Defendant. Defendant must permit representatives of the

           Commission to interview any employee or other person affiliated with any Defendant

           who has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

           present.

       C. The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing, through its

           representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Defendants

           or any individual or entity affiliated with Defendants, without the necessity of

           identification or prior notice. Nothing in this Order limits the Commission's lawful

           use of compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C.

           §§ 49, 576-1.

       D. Upon written request from a representative of the Commission, any consumer

           reporting agency must furnish consumer reports concerning Individual Defendants,

           pursuant to Section 604(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15JJ.S.C.JJ68lb(a){J}.

                           XII.   RETENTION OF JURISDICTION

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Court retains jurisdiction of this matter for

purposes of construction, modification, and enforcement of this Order.




                                                         SQQ




                                                15
_ _ _ day of
               - - - - - - - - ' 202 .




                     16
SO STIPULATED AND AGREED:


FOR PLAINTIFF:


FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION:



-~~~-~
EVAN R. ZULLOW
                      _ _ _ Date:

CHRISTOPHER B. LEACH
IOANA R. GORECKI
THOMAS C. KOST
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW
Mail Stop CC-10232
Washington, DC 20580
Tel: 202-326-2914 (Zullow)
202-326-2394 (Leach)
202-326-2077 (Gorecki)
202-326-2286 (Kost)
Fax: 202-326-2752
ezul!ow@ftc.gov; cleach@ftc.gov; igorecki@ftc.gov; tkost@ftc.gov




                                            17
       \._,d,.:)tJ .i .Ll-'··•L; v ··t_j()\j_~ "-J-L/-!; r'-   i,_) UCt.i! !i~.::il t .:.~t:.'_   [-· i::t: U 'jt..,,.• /i~ )_J L_~.   :-.-r ttuc~ J.,C u~ ..L :::J
         case 1:20-cv-06023-LAK Document 44 Filed 05/04/21 Page 18 of 19




FOR DEFENDANTS YELLOWSTONE CAPITAL LLC; FUNDRY LLC;
YITZHAK D. STERN, A/KIA ISAAC STERN; AND JEFFREY REECE:




Christopher Emrich Ondeck
Proskauer Rose LLP
1001 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
Suite 600s
Washington, DC 20004
202-416-5865
Fax: 202-416-6899
Email: condeck@proskauer.com

Counsel for Defendants Yellowstone Capital LLC and Fundry LLC




Leonard L. Gordon
Venable LLP (NYC)
1270 Avenu e of the Americas
New York, NY l 0020
(212)-3 70-6252
Email : lgordon@venable.com

Counselfor Defe ndants Yitzhak D. Stern and Jeffrey Reece




                                                                                 18
DEFENDANTS:



                                                                              Date: 3/19/ 2021
YITZHAK D. STERN, a/k/ a Isaa c Stern, individually
and as an officer of Yellowstone Capital LLC and Fundry LLC




-   -   -   -   -----;-,-...J-f-1\---='---"'~ --   -   - --    -   - --   -
                                                                              Date:03/19/21
JEFFREY RE '             ually and as an officer of
Yellowstone Capital LLC and Fundry LLC




                                                              19
