https://www.timesunion.com/business/article/Victims-of-MyPayrollHR-collapse-reveal-pain-and-16360790.php
fetched 2026-09-26 via Bright Data Browser API (direct + fetchlayer got a "Client Challenge" JS wall) — SECONDARY (Times Union, Larry Rulison, Aug 4, 2021). Headline: Victims of MyPayrollHR collapse reveal pain and suffering

Former MyPayrollHR CEO Michael Mann, center, arrives at U.S. District Court with his attorneys to be sentenced in the $100 million fraud case that brought down his company.

Former MyPayrollHR CEO Michael Mann, center, arrives at U.S. District Court with his attorneys to be sentenced in the $100 million fraud case that brought down his company.

Former MyPayrollHR CEO Michael Mann, center, arrives at U.S. District Court with his attorneys to be sentenced in the $100 million fraud case that brought down his company.

Former MyPayrollHR CEO Michael Mann, right, arrives at U.S. District Court to be sentenced in the $100 million fraud case that brought down his company.

Michael Mann, left, the ex-MyPayrollHR CEO, and his attorney, Michael Koenig, enter U.S. District Court on Wednesday, Aug. 12, 2020, in Albany, N.Y. Mann will be sentenced Wednesday to a likely prison sentence. (Paul Buckowski/Times Union)

ALBANY — Don't feel sorry for Michael Mann.

That's the message that prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney's Office in Albany want to convey to the judge whose job is to decide Wednesday at the federal courthouse in Albany how much time Mann should spend behind bars after he confessed to an elaborate, $100 million bank fraud scheme that also led to the collapse of Mann's Clifton Park payroll processing firm two years ago.

Although Mann's crimes — ranging from wire fraud conspiracy to identity theft and filing false tax returns — were mainly aimed at deceiving banks and finance companies into loaning him and his various business ventures tens of millions of dollars, the most compelling victims are the regular people whose employers used Mann's payroll service, MyPayrollHR, to pay their employees each week.

Mann's decadelong scheme to defraud his lenders so that he could buy companies like MyPayrollHR and fund other business ventures, including a physical therapy chain and a high school basketball academy, was uncovered during Labor Day weekend in 2019.

For many of Mann's victims, the days that followed that holiday weekend ended up becoming a nightmare and a major turning point in their personal and professional lives, according to victim impact statements collected by prosecutors, portions of which are cited in the government's sentencing memo sent to Senior U.S. District Court Judge Lawrence Kahn asking that Mann be sentenced to 22 years in prison.

That's because Mann had been using their payroll funds as a source for much-needed cash to keep his lenders from discovering that his businesses weren't making as much as he had told them.

Although Mann's bankers didn't catch on to what Mann was doing until 2019, he had been repeatedly warned by the California company that helped to move his clients' payroll through the banking system to stop the practice. Mann never did, and the company, Cachet Financial Services, was forced to file for bankruptcy.

In their sentencing memo, federal prosecutors lead with the story of Bonnie Rosengrant, the owner of the Hometown Diner, a popular eatery in Rindge, N.H., near Franklin Pierce University.

Rosengrant was sitting at the bedside of her critically ill mother, holding her hand, during the first week in September 2019 when she received a call from her manager that none of the diner's roughly two dozen employees had been paid that week — despite the fact that the funds had already been pulled from the diner's bank account. Rosengrant used Mann's payroll software.

Alarmed, Rosengrant left her mother's bedside and stepped into a financial mess so horrible that she and her husband were forced to use $30,000 of their life savings to pay their employees their lost wages and cover their payroll taxes.

By the following June, with the COVID-19 pandemic having ravaged the restaurant industry, Rosengrant opted to retire and closed the diner.

"To this day, she is haunted by her decision to leave her dying mother’s bedside," prosecutors wrote Kahn. "Before September 2019, the name Michael Mann meant nothing to Ms. Rosengrant, and she never imagined that her payroll processor would steal from her and her hard-working employees."

The Hometown Diner soon reopened under new management and appears to be thriving once again, but Rosengrant still cannot get over "being violated" by Mann.

"Because of your actions, you have left me with depression, lack of trust, low mood, sleeplessness, anger issues and an anxiety disorder," Rosengrant writes in her victim impact statement. "The stress I have been through of losing my business, the financial loss and of course having to leave my dying mother’s bedside has taken a toll on me mentally and physically."

Rosengrant still struggles today, two years later.

"Michael Mann, I want you to know this is what being violated will do to you," Rosengrant wrote. "You cannot shut it off and it will not go away."

It is unclear if Rosengrant and other victims of MyPayrollHR's collapse will be attending Wednesday's sentencing. At least one victim has asked to speak before Mann is sentenced, although prosecutors have yet to identify the woman.

Other victim impact statements are just as chilling. One victim attempted suicide, prosecutors assert, although the names of all of them except Rosengrant have been kept out of public view due to the highly personal nature of their testimony.

A staffing company in Massachusetts that used MyPayrollHR said that employees initially assumed the company had stolen their paychecks, leading to an angry mob assembling in the company's lobby for days demanding justice.

"We experienced threats of violence against the company broadly as well as against individual managers, including death threats, during this time, necessitating the hiring of a police officer to guard our offices," an unidentified company executive wrote in another statement cited by prosecutors.

The executive said it was the worst thing that they had ever experienced either professionally or personally, "including the protracted illness and subsequent death of my father as well as dealing with a significant, chronic health condition with one of my children."

Even animals suffered the consequences, the manager of an animal shelter in Wisconsin that used MyPayrollHR and lost $18,000 said in their statement to the court.

"In the end, the money we needed to cover those losses came directly from accounts that we use to care for the many abused, neglected and sick animals we care for on a daily basis," the person wrote.

Mann's attorney, Michael Koenig, is seeking a far shorter prison term for his client — Koenig cited examples of similar white-collar criminals who received sentences of five years or less in his own sentencing memo sent to Kahn.

He says that although Mann ripped off his lenders to the tune of $100 million, he only paid himself an annual salary of $200,000, dating back to before he began the fraud in 2013, and never gave himself a raise.

Mann and his wife lived in a lakefront home on Great Sacandaga Lake they purchased in 2015 for $375,000. They have since sold the property and moved to North Carolina where Mann has been working for a logistics company.

"He did not live a luxurious life with luxury items," Koenig wrote to Kahn. "Equally important, Michael was very charitable, from 1999 through 2017 alone, he and his wife donated approximately 25 percent of his compensation to charitable causes."

Koenig also wrote that Mann takes full responsibility for his crimes, but that can't entirely erase all the good work he has done for others. Koenig also filed letters of support for Mann with the court, although Kahn agreed to keep the letters under seal and out of public view due to their sensitive personal nature.

One of the letters was filed by Mann's current employer, who appears from corporate records on file in North Carolina to have worked with Mann on his basketball academy, which was also forced to shut down in September 2019. Others also wrote of Mann's devotion to charity and acts of kindness.

"Michael assisted a friend who was on dialysis, legally blind and an amputee, including paying the funeral costs when the gentleman's wife died several years ago," Koenig wrote Kahn. "Michael also helped a friend during a family emergency (including by offering financial support so the friend could travel to be with his family), and helped a young man, who was homeless at the time, get back on his feet."

Larry Rulison has been a reporter for the Times Union since 2005. Larry’s reporting for the Times Union has won several awards for business and investigative journalism from the New York State Associated Press Association and the New York News Publishers Association. Contact him at 518-454-5504 or lrulison@timesunion.com.

Suscríbete a ViX y conoce la historia fuera del ring

BY:
