https://www.timesunion.com/business/article/michael-mann-prison-fraud-victims-still-limbo-22338636.php
fetched 2026-09-26 via Bright Data Browser API (direct + fetchlayer got a "Client Challenge" JS wall) — SECONDARY (Times Union, Larry Rulison, July 9, 2026). Headline: Five years after $101 million fraudster went to prison, none of his victims have been repaid

Former MyPayrollHR CEO Michael Mann, center, arrives at U.S. District Court with his attorneys to be sentenced in the $101 million fraud case that brought down his company. Five years later, victims have not received any restitution. The case was reassigned to a new judge this year and victims say there have been no updates since then.

ALBANY — Next month will mark five years since Clifton Park payroll firm founder Michael T. Mann was sentenced to 12 years in federal prison for one of the most brazen bank fraud schemes in Capital Region history and ordered to repay his victims $101 million.

While Mann has served out nearly half of his sentence at a low-security federal prison near Trenton, N.J., with an expected release date of 2030, his victims, many of them small business owners, have received nothing.

And after a federal judge in Albany who had been overseeing the case for years was suddenly replaced back in April with a different judge, the victims say they are now less certain than ever that they will ever see their money.

Previously: Read the Times Union’s coverage of the MyPayrollHR scandal.

That includes Bonnie Ronsengrant, the former owner of the Hometown Diner in Rindge, N.H.

Rosengrant and her husband were forced to use $30,000 of their savings to pay their employees after Mann’s payroll firm collapsed, just after Labor Day in 2019, as his yearslong bank fraud scheme was unraveling. They were forced to sell the business.

Rosengrant had been using MyPayrollHR for about three years at the time. Her accountant had recommended the firm.

Rosengrant and her husband now live with family in York, Pa., after he was diagnosed with cancer. He now needs to undergo a stem cell replacement, and Rosengrant is worried about the future and how they are going to pay for his ongoing medical bills.

“It’s very frustrating,” Rosengrant told the Times Union in a phone interview this week. “Since it happened, it’s been nearly seven years.”

Rosengrant told the Times Union that up until earlier this year, victims were given regular updates about the progress of the case, which has been tied up for years amid disputes over who is owed what money and who exactly all of Mann’s victims are.

Mann’s crimes — which ranged from wire fraud conspiracy to identity theft and filing false tax returns — were mainly aimed at deceiving banks and finance companies into loaning him and his various business ventures tens of millions of dollars.

He kept accounts at Pioneer Bank in Colonie but worked with lenders across the country, creating fake financial documents to obtain loans that allowed him to build and acquire a host of businesses, including MyPayrollHR, as well as a physical therapy chain and a high school basketball academy.

All of it came crashing down in 2019 when Pioneer Bank and Bank of America froze Mann’s accounts, setting off a chain reaction of events that would lead to an estimated $101 million in losses.

Records in the criminal case indicate there are nearly 200 small business owners who were clients of MyPayrollHR. There are also numerous banks and finance companies, both locally and across the country, that contend they, too, were victims of Mann’s larger bank fraud scheme and have been seeking compensation in the case as well.

Then, in April, the longtime judge assigned to the case, Senior U.S District Court Judge Lawrence E. Kahn, was taken off the case. It was then assigned to U.S. District Court Judge Anne M. Nardacci.

Michael Mann bank fraud scheme victims Bonnie Rosengrant, left, and Melanie O’Malley, right, speak to reporters outside James T. Foley U.S. Courthouse in Albany following Mann’s sentencing in 2021. They are among nearly 200 small business owners who were clients of  MyPayrollHR, court records indicate.

There have been no updates to the case since, says Rosengrant, who operates a private Facebook page for victims with Melaine O’Malley, who owns O’Malley’s Oven, a bakery in Troy. The page has 1,600 members, including former MyPayrollHR employees and others whose lives were impacted by Mann’s fraud.

“We have no answers as to why it was turned over to another judge,” Rosengrant says.

Back when Mann was sentenced in August 2021 and a $101 million judgment was entered against him, Kahn gave prosecutors 90 days to identify all of the victims of Mann’s fraud.

Since then, federal prosecutors on the case have asked Kahn for 90-day extensions 18 times to compile the official list. The last request was made back in January and was granted by Kahn. That extension expired just days before the case was reassigned to Nardacci by Chief Judge Brenda K. Sannes on April 10.

In a Jan. 4 letter to Kahn, Cyrus P.W. Rieck, an assistant U.S. Attorney, said that prosecutors were expecting to file an “amended judgment” against Mann due to a variety of factors.

In the letter, Rieck wrote that “numerous lawsuits and motions whose resolution would facilitate the full identification of victims and the amount each victim is owed” are still pending.

Rieck specifically mentioned one lawsuit filed against the parent company of Pioneer Bank that is going to trial next month, and a third-party claim by a company called Cachet Financial Services of California that asserts it is owed $26 million by Mann and has been seeking $14 million seized by the federal government in the case.

The Times Union reached out to the office of First Assistant U.S. Attorney John A. Sarcone III, the chief prosecutor for the Northern District of New York, for comment. A spokesman for his office declined comment for this story.

It’s unclear who, if anyone, is representing Mann. Mann’s criminal attorney at his sentencing, Michael L. Koenig, no longer represents him. Koenig left private practice right after Mann’s sentencing to become the chief ethics and compliance officer of an international food company in Colorado.

Koenig is now back on the East Coast working for a New York City law firm. Although he hears from Mann from time to time, he no longer has a connection to the case.

It is unclear why the case was reassigned to Nardacci. The Times Union left a voicemail with Kahn’s chambers seeking comment. Kahn was appointed a federal judge in 1996.

O’Malley, the bakery owner, says she donates her time to help coordinate the Facebook page for Mann’s victims because she was not harmed nearly as much as the other victims. She had just started using MyPayrollHR in 2019 when the scandal hit. She lost about $2,000 personally and was working for herself at the time.

“They (the other victims) were completely floored and devastated and didn’t have the capacity to do the organizing,” O’Malley said. “That’s how I ended up becoming the face of it.”

O’Malley says it has been frustrating that the restitution portion of the criminal case against Mann has dragged on for so long. The small business owners and other individual victims she knows through the Facebook page don’t have the same resources to hire lawyers like the banks and finance companies Mann defrauded.

“Their lives moved on,” O’Malley said. “They didn’t have a choice. They’re not able to just sit back and let the case take its course.”

Larry Rulison has been a reporter for the Times Union since 2005. Larry’s reporting for the Times Union has won several awards for business and investigative journalism from the New York State Associated Press Association and the New York News Publishers Association. Contact him at 518-454-5504 or lrulison@timesunion.com.
