https://www.dcnewsnow.com/news/local-news/washington-dc/fake-fire-equipment-inspector-scams-dc-business-of-close-to-1000/
Fetched 2026-09-26 (VIA WAYBACK snapshot 20230430225409 (live URL 403 = BLOCKED))
HEADLINE: Fake fire equipment inspector gets close to $1,000 from DC business
PUBLISHED: 2023-04-24T00:58:43+00:00
AUTHOR: Dave Leval

WASHINGTON, D.C. (DC News Now) — A man whom a D.C. business said posed as a fire equipment inspector, taking nearly early $1,000 from a bagel shop Saturday, may be connected to similar incidents around the country.

Security footage caught him dressed in black with a ball cap at Pearl’s Bagels near Mount Vernon Square. He talked to the manager on duty, then went back to check on fire suppression equipment over the cooking area.

He claimed to work for Fireline, the company that supplies the equipment, according to one of the owners of the shop; however, the man does not work for Fireline. He presented four receipts from a company called Metro Fire Prevention, a company that people at Pearl’s Bagels said doesn’t exist.

“I’ll be back and I’ll be in out in three minutes,” the man can be heard saying on the video as he left. He never returned as his scam also earned him $970.

“She (the manager) just looked at the totals. She didn’t look at the specifics,” said co-owner Oliver Cox. “We were too busy, which I honestly think was part of his plan.”

The receipts claim Metro Fire Prevention is located on State Street in D.C. There’s no such street with that name.

“He spoke the jargon in a believable way that he seemed like he really was with the company we contract with,” said Cox.

Pearl’s Bagels may not be the first victim.

A Google search of “Metro Fire Prevention” found similar cases reported in Connecticut, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania that date back to 2017. In each case, the person believed to be involved bears a resemblance to the man seen in the footage at Pearl’s Bagels.

Cox promised his staff will be better prepared the next time someone claims to be from a company that wants to be paid.
