https://www.liherald.com/valleystream/stories/fake-fire-inspector-scams-valley-stream-rockville-centre-businesses,179885
Fetched 2026-09-26 (direct)
HEADLINE: Scammer tricks Nassau County businesses out of thousands by posing as a fire inspector
PUBLISHED: 2023-06-08T12:12:20-04:00
AUTHOR: Caroline Kelly

A Manhattan man was arrested for scamming multiple Nassau County business owners to net thousands of dollars in a spate of fraudulent fire inspections, police said.

All told, Michael Carrion, 57, allegedly collected over $3,200 from making phony inspections and imposing fabricated fines on businesses located in Rockville Centre, Valley Stream, New Hyde Park, and Great Neck. According to police, there are five known incidents that occurred between February 2020 and August of this year where Carrion conducted his scheme, posing as a fire Marshall, firefighter, and fire investigator.

Carrion, who was arrested without incident, is being charged with grand larceny, scheme to defraud, criminal impersonation, and petit larceny. He is set to be arraigned on Jun 14 at First District Court in Hempstead. Police urge other Nassau business owners who might also be a victim of this fraud to reach out to the Nassau County Crime Stoppers at (1-800) 244-TIPS or call 911.

The worldwide pandemic has threatened many of the businesses you rely on every day, but don’t let it take away your source for local news. Now more than ever, we need your help to ensure nothing but the best in hyperlocal community journalism comes straight to you. Consider supporting the Herald with a small donation. It can be a one-time, or a monthly contribution, to help ensure we’re here through this crisis. To donate or for more information, click here.

Step right up to history at the Long Island Fair

Jolie Silva: The resilience kids lose behind their screens

Jerry Kremer: Tech companies must explain why we need data centers

Valley Stream plans Parking Field 26 closure for new senior housing development
