https://wjla.com/news/local/pearls-bagels-scammed-fake-fire-inspector-oliver-cox-ansul-metro-prevention-surveillance-police-crime-pittsburgh-new-jersey-manhattan-nicholas-angelo-carrion-suspect-small-business-investigation-sophie-temple-fireline-employee-customers
Fetched 2026-09-26 (direct)
HEADLINE: 'Why us?': Popular DC bagel shop gets robbed of nearly $1K by fake fire inspector
PUBLISHED: 2023-04-24T17:44:53.000-04:00
AUTHOR: Megan Clarke

The Metropolitan Police Department is investigating after the owner of a popular Northwest D.C. bagel shop said he was scammed out of a day’s worth of profits by a man claiming to be a fire inspector. Pearl's Bagels co-owner Oliver Cox told 7News he also believes this scammer has performed the same crime numerous times before — across multiple states. "To have some guy come in and take that [cash] right from our hands as we handed it to him, felt particularly violating," Cox said. RELATED | DC Police need your help finding a suspect wanted in Pearl's Bagels fraud case Cox shared surveillance video with 7News showing the suspect wearing a black baseball hat and plain shirt entering the store last Saturday morning around, at around 10:30, surrounded by a crowd of customers. "Around 10:35 he walked in, and he was gone with $970 at 10:43 a.m.," Cox said. Cox said the man approached store manager Sophie Temple and asked to check one of the shop's fire prevention systems, called the "ANSUL" system — a very specific name Cox and Temple believe most people would not know. "He had absolutely all the right jargon," Temple said. ALSO READ | Instacart shopper accused of scamming over 100 customers out of thousands Cox told 7News that the man then said he was from the third-party company that tags the equipment, "Fireline." A tag with the name Fireline is clearly visible and attached to the ANSUL system. 7News reached out to Fireline, and a representative confirmed the man seen in the video is not a current or former employee. Temple said the man asked to speak with her boss by name, and she complied, giving Cox a call. "He said his name was Jim Stance, which I'm sure is a made-up name," Cox said of the brief conversation. Cox said the ANSUL system was due for service, but in a busy shop checks are common. "It was so specific that I didn’t think anything of it," Cox said. Cox said the man told him he would update the tags on the equipment and return Monday afternoon with new parts, and then got off the phone. Temple did not hear the phone conversation. She said the man handed her multiple invoices and told her she could pay in cash, with her boss's blessing. "'You can pay me in cash out of the register,' I was like, weird, OK," Temple said. Temple quickly paid up, and after telling her boss the store needed more $20 bills, Cox said he realized something was wrong. "All these things were right there, but the way it happened and the timing he chose to attack, it was like, he was a real pro at getting this done," Cox said. Why us, why continue to do this," Temple said. "Why take advantage of people who are trying to do their best. SEE MORE | 'I made over $30,000': Reformed romance scammer reveals tactics and motivation After a closer look, Cox realized the address on the invoices for "1231 State St." in D.C. did not exist. Cox also Googled the company listed on the invoice, “Metro Fire Prevention," and to his dismay, found multiple similar incidents online. In New Jersey in 2019, a similar-looking suspect was caught on video in another apparent scam. The Westfield Police Chief shared a warning for local businesses, "to be aware of an individual who impersonates a fire protection inspector." 7News also reached out to Pittsburgh police, after an incident on Aug. 4, 2022. Police posted on Facebook that a man had entered a business and then requested "... to inspect the business and the fire extinguishers before asking for a payment, and leaving without inspection." The department confirmed to 7News that there is an active arrest warrant for Nicholas Angelo Carrion, born in 1966 and suspected of that crime. Cox also received an almost identical invoice from a Manhattan bagel shop, "Bagel Boss Nolita." The invoice has the exact same fake address but is instead listed out of New York. "He sticks to a script, he knows it works, he’s effective," Cox said. While hindsight helps, Cox is now spreading the word. He hopes sharing the images could save another small business from a significant financial hit. Cox said $970 is more than a weekend's day in total take-home profits after paying employees and high food costs. "He got us, and he’s gotten a lot of other people," Cox said. "Hopefully, he’ll get caught, that’s our goal." Metropolitan Police Department is offering a $1,000 reward for any information leading to an arrest or indictment in this crime, which is being investigated as first-degree fraud.
