https://wjla.com/news/local/pearls-bagels-fraud-case-scammed-fake-fire-inspector-dc-mpd-police-investigation-michael-carrion-nicholas-angelo-small-business-warrant-new-jersey-pittsburgh-pa-crime-montgomery-county-rockville
Fetched 2026-09-26 (direct)
HEADLINE: DC Police need your help finding a suspect wanted in Pearl's Bagels fraud case
PUBLISHED: 2023-05-03T20:35:13.000-04:00
AUTHOR: Sonia Dasgupta

D.C. Police are hoping the public can help them find a suspect wanted in a fraud case. Michael Carrion, 56, is currently wanted on a New Jersey arrested warrant. He's also wanted on a DC Superior Court warrant for a first-degree fraud case at a popular northwest D.C. bagel shop on April 21. Pearl's Bagels in the 100 block of 7th Street NW was scammed out of a day's worth of profits by a man who claimed to be a fire inspector, police said. RELATED | 'Why us?': Popular DC bagel shop gets robbed of nearly $1K by fake fire inspector Co-owner Oliver Cox told 7News he also believes this scammer has performed the same crime numerous times before — across multiple states. "To have some guy come in and take that [cash] right from our hands as we handed it to him, felt particularly violating," Cox said. Cox shared surveillance video with 7News showing the suspect wearing a black baseball hat and plain shirt entering the store last Saturday morning around, at around 10:30, surrounded by a crowd of customers. The man approached store manager Sophie Temple and asked to check one of the shop's fire prevention systems, called the "ANSUL" system — a very specific name Cox and Temple believe most people would not know. "He had absolutely all the right jargon," Temple said. Cox told 7News that the man then said he was from the third-party company that tags the equipment, "Fireline." A tag with the name Fireline is clearly visible and attached to the ANSUL system. 7News reached out to Fireline, and a representative confirmed the man seen in the video is not a current or former employee. SEE ALSO | 'Computer gets blacked out': Fairfax Co. woman loses over $50K after wire transfer scam Now police are hoping the public can help them find Carrion. Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Michael Carrion or who has knowledge of this incident should take no action but call police at (202) 727-9099 or text your tip to the Department's TEXT TIP LINE at 50411. Crime Solvers of Washington, DC currently offers a reward of up to $1,000 to anyone who provides information that leads to the arrest and indictment of the person or persons responsible for a crime committed in the District of Columbia.
